exercises/02-bad-flask-app-intro.md, before:

# Introduction to Bad Flask App

## Learning Goals

- Understand general good steps to do at the beginning of developing
test cases.

## Introduction

This is the UI portion of the training. The overall goal for the rest of
the exercices is to fill the form successfully. The exercises will not necessarily get
more difficult as they go on, but will tackle completely different issues.

In the following exercises, we're going to write all our keywords into `bad_flask_app.robot` file
in the `resources` directory and our only test case into the `form.robot` file.

> Remember that the `bad_flask_app.robot` file is in the `resources` folder, so the resource file
> is imported with a relative path. Also, we've named our resource file based on the application
> we're testing and our test suite file based on the type of actions we're going to do with the
> application.

## Exercise

### Overview

- Create a new test case called `Form Filled With Valid Data Should Submit Successfully`.
- Tag your test case to mark it as unfinished.
- Implement suite setup (and teardown).
- Have your test pass by running only setup (and teardown).
- **Optional:** Parametrize opening browser in headless/headful mode

### Step-by-step

<details>
  <summary>Create your test case and tag it as unfinished.</summary>

<br />

A test suite file is no use without any test cases. Each test case should have a descriptive name.
Our goal is to submit the form successfully, so a name like `Form Filled With Valid Data Should
Submit Successfully` is a good name. A test case should also have at least one step. For now, you
can add `No Operation` call to your test case, just to make sure it runs.

- Create a test case called `Form Filled With Valid Data Should Submit Successfully` to your test suite.
- Add `No Operation` call into your case.

It's a good practice to separate ready tests from unfinished ones, so that CI won't run your unfinished
tests. Tags are the best way to do this. Your CI run should have some `--exclude` (or `-e`) flag to
exclude unfinished tests. The tag name can be whatever is clear enough, but `wip` (work in progress)
is commonly used to indicate this.

- Add a `wip` tag to your test case.

> :bulb: Test case specific tags need be defined with a `[Tags]` at the beginning of your test case.

</details> <!-- Create your test case -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Implement setup and teardown.</summary>

<br />

Our goal is to fill the form in a website. Opening a browser is a relatively time consuming task
and it's not really part of our test, so we should add that to our `Suite Setup` in the `Settings`
table of our test suite file. In order to avoid having too much detail in our test suite, we can
add that call to our resource file.

- Create a keyword called `Open Browser To Application` to your resource file.
- Set `Open Browser To Application` as your `Suite Setup` in your test suite file.
- Add a `BROWSER` variable into your resource file and give it a value your environment supports.

Since we're dealing with external libraries, we need to remember to import our library into our resource file

- Add `SeleniumLibrary` **or** `Browser` as a `Library` to your resource file.

> It might be a good idea to add library imports to all files that call library keywords directly, so
> you know all dependencies of the file you're inspecting. However, this might cause unexpected behaviour
> if the libraries are imported with initialization values.
>
> :bulb: If you completed [exercise 01](./01-rest-api.md) with Browser library, you already have your
> library import ready in your resource file.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

Bad Flask App is running in `localhost:5000`, so we need to open our browser there. SeleniumLirbary
doesn't close the browser automatically, so we need to remember to close the browser in our suite teardown.

- Use `Open Browser` to open a browser to Bad Flask App (`localhost:5000`) in your `Open Browser To Application` keyword.
- Add `Close Browser` keyword call as your `Suite Teardown` in your test suite file.

> We're going to write only a single test throughout this training, so a `Test Setup` and a
`Test Teardown` would've been perfectly fine in _this_ particular case as well. However, it's best
practice to open and close a browser only once during your test suite, so they're better to be put
in `Suite Setup` and `Suite Teardown`. This way we ensure the browser is opened and closed only
once, if we decided to expand our test suite.

</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

Browser library automatically closes the browser after the test or suite has finished, to we don't
need to handle closing the browser separately. We can use `New Page` keyword to open the browser
to Bad Flask App.

- Call `New Page` to `Open Browser To Application` to open Bad Flask App (`localhost:5000`).

</details> <!-- Browser -->

> :bulb: If you're running your server with Docker, you might need to use the Docker-machine's
> IP address instead of `localhost`. You can find the docker-machine IP address by using
> `docker inspect <container_name>`.
>
> While debugging a test case, you might actually want to leave the browser open. You can use the
`Pause Execution` keyword from the [Dialogs](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/Dialogs.html)
library for this purpose. This will give you a popup when you reach the
keyword and nothing will happen in the test case until you manually
close the popup.

</details> <!-- Implement setup and teardown. -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Optional: Parametrize opening browser to headless or headful mode.</summary>

<details>
  <Summary>SelenuimLibrary</summary>

By default SeleniumLibrary opens a browser in headful state. This is good while developing, but when running
in CI, opening and closing browsers use a lot of time, so they could/should be run in headless state. This is
easy to accomplish with the command line parameter `--variable BROWSER:headlessfirefox` (or `headlesschrome`,
provided that you have a variable called `BROWSER`). Although using the command line parameter is preferred,
it can also be parametrized in our `Open Browser To Application` by adding another parameter `headless` and
give it a value of `${TRUE}` or `${FALSE}`.

We can then concatenate strings and variables by using `Set Variable If`. Headful Firefox is `firefox` and headful
Chrome is `chrome`. Similarily, headless Firefox is `headlessfirefox` and headless Chrome is `headlesschrome`.
We only need to check if our `headless` variable is `${TRUE}` and add `headless` before our browser variable.
We can give `Set Variable If` a value for the `else` bracket right away as the third argument.
For example `${chosen_browser}=    Set Variable If    ${headless}    headless${BROWSER}    ${BROWSER}`.

- Add a new argument called `headless` to `Open Browser To Application` keyword.
- Use `Set Variable If` to set `chosen_browser` variable to `headless${BROWSER}` or `${BROWSER}` depending
on the value of `headless`
- Change the `BROWSER` variable in `Open Browser` to use `chosen_browser`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

By default Browser library opens browsers in a headless state. We need to specifically open it in a
headful state if we want to see what is happening during the test. It's not necessary for the final
test, but it makes debugging a lot easier to see what the tests are doing. `New Page` calls `New Browser`
with default parameters if called without `New Browser`. This means we need to separately call
`New Browser` with `headless=${FALSE}` before calling `New Page`.

Let's take that one step further. Especially if the same keyword is being called by both UI and API tests
we don't really want to see the browser open during the API tests. We can parametrize opening in headless
state and have it open headless by default and we can then just use `headless=${FALSE}` in our `Suite Setup`
while we're debugging.

- Add `headless` parameter to `Open Browser To Our Application` keyword and give it `${TRUE}` as a default
value.
- Add call to `New Browser` before `New Page` and give it the parameter `headless=${headless}`.
- Add a parameter to your `Suite Setup` to set `headless=${TRUE}`.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

</details> <!-- Optional exercise -->

Commit message:

Fix issues mentioned in PR comments

exercises/02-bad-flask-app-intro.md, after:

# Introduction to Bad Flask App

## Learning Goals

- Understand general good steps to do at the beginning of developing
test cases.

## Introduction

This is the UI portion of the training. The overall goal for the rest of
the exercices is to fill the form successfully. The exercises will not necessarily get
more difficult as they go on, but will tackle completely different issues.

In the following exercises, we're going to write all our keywords into `bad_flask_app.robot` file
in the `resources` directory and our only test case into the `form.robot` file.

> Remember that the `bad_flask_app.robot` file is in the `resources` folder, so the resource file
> is imported with a relative path. Also, we've named our resource file based on the application
> we're testing and our test suite file based on the type of actions we're going to do with the
> application.

## Exercise

### Overview

- Create a new test case called `Form Filled With Valid Data Should Submit Successfully`.
- Tag your test case to mark it as unfinished.
- Implement suite setup (and teardown).
- Have your test pass by running only setup (and teardown).
- **Optional:** Parametrize opening browser in headless/headful mode

### Step-by-step

<details>
  <summary>Create your test case and tag it as unfinished.</summary>

<br />

A test suite file is no use without any test cases. Each test case should have a descriptive name.
Our goal is to submit the form successfully, so a name like `Form Filled With Valid Data Should
Submit Successfully` is a good name. A test case should also have at least one step. For now, you
can add `No Operation` call to your test case, just to make sure it runs.

- Create a test case called `Form Filled With Valid Data Should Submit Successfully` to your test suite.
- Add `No Operation` call into your case.

It's a good practice to separate ready tests from unfinished ones, so that CI won't run your unfinished
tests. Tags are the best way to do this. Your CI run should have some `--exclude` (or `-e`) flag to
exclude unfinished tests. The tag name can be whatever is clear enough, but `wip` (work in progress)
is commonly used to indicate this.

- Add a `wip` tag to your test case.

> :bulb: Test case specific tags need be defined with a `[Tags]` at the beginning of your test case.

</details> <!-- Create your test case -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Implement setup and teardown.</summary>

<br />

Our goal is to fill the form in a website. Opening a browser is a relatively time consuming task
and it's not really part of our test, so we should add that to our `Suite Setup` in the `Settings`
table of our test suite file. In order to avoid having too much detail in our test suite, we can
add that call to our resource file.

- Create a keyword called `Open Browser To Application` to your resource file.
- Set `Open Browser To Application` as your `Suite Setup` in your test suite file.
- Add a `BROWSER` variable into your resource file and give it a value your environment supports.

Since we're dealing with external libraries, we need to remember to import our library into our resource file

- Add `SeleniumLibrary` **or** `Browser` as a `Library` to your resource file.

> It might be a good idea to add library imports to all files that call library keywords directly, so
> you know all dependencies of the file you're inspecting. However, this might cause unexpected behaviour
> if the libraries are imported with initialization values.
>
> :bulb: If you completed [exercise 01](./01-rest-api.md) with Browser library, you already have your
> library import ready in your resource file.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

Bad Flask App is running at `localhost:5000`, so we need to open our browser in that address. SeleniumLibrary
doesn't close any open browser instances automatically, which can cause major performance and scaling issues.
So we need to remember to close the browser in our suite teardown.

- Use `Open Browser` to open a browser to Bad Flask App (`localhost:5000`) in your `Open Browser To Application` keyword.
- Add `Close Browser` keyword call as your `Suite Teardown` in your test suite file.

> We're going to write only a single test throughout this training, so a `Test Setup` and a
`Test Teardown` would've been perfectly fine in _this_ particular case as well. However, it's best
practice to open and close a browser only once during your test suite, so they're better to be put
in `Suite Setup` and `Suite Teardown`. This way we ensure the browser is opened and closed only
once, if we decided to expand our test suite.

</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

Browser library automatically closes the browser after the test or suite has finished, to we don't
need to handle closing the browser separately. We can use `New Page` keyword to open the browser
to Bad Flask App.

- Call `New Page` in `Open Browser To Application` to open Bad Flask App (`localhost:5000`).

</details> <!-- Browser -->

> :bulb: If you're running your server with Docker, you might need to use the Docker container's
> IP address instead of `localhost`. You can find the IP address by using
> `docker inspect <container_name>`.
>
> While debugging a test case, you might actually want to leave the browser open. You can use the
`Pause Execution` keyword from the [Dialogs](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/libraries/Dialogs.html)
library for this purpose. This will give you a popup when you reach the
keyword and nothing will happen in the test case until you manually
close the popup.

</details> <!-- Implement setup and teardown. -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Optional: Parametrize opening browser to headless or headful mode.</summary>

<details>
  <Summary>SelenuimLibrary</summary>

By default SeleniumLibrary opens a browser in headful state. This is good while developing, but when running
in CI, opening and closing browser windows take a lot of time, so they could/should be run in headless state. This is
easy to accomplish with the command line parameter `--variable BROWSER:headlessfirefox` (or `headlesschrome`,
provided that you have a variable called `BROWSER`). Although using the command line parameter is preferred,
it can also be parametrized in our `Open Browser To Application` by adding another parameter `headless` and
giving it a value of `${TRUE}` or `${FALSE}`.

We can then concatenate strings and variables by using `Set Variable If`. Headful Firefox is `firefox` and headful
Chrome is `chrome`. Similarily, headless Firefox is `headlessfirefox` and headless Chrome is `headlesschrome`.
We only need to check if our `headless` variable is `${TRUE}` and add `headless` before our browser variable.
We can give `Set Variable If` a value for the `else` bracket right away as the third argument.
For example `${chosen_browser}=    Set Variable If    ${headless}    headless${BROWSER}    ${BROWSER}`.

- Add a new argument called `headless` to `Open Browser To Application` keyword.
- Use `Set Variable If` to set `chosen_browser` variable to `headless${BROWSER}` or `${BROWSER}` depending
on the value of `headless`
- Change the `BROWSER` variable in `Open Browser` to use `chosen_browser`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

By default Browser library opens browsers in a headless state. We need to specifically open it in a
headful state if we want to see what is happening during the test. It's not necessary for the final
test, but it makes debugging a lot easier to see what the tests are doing. `New Page` calls `New Browser`
with default parameters if called without `New Browser`. This means we need to separately call
`New Browser` with `headless=${FALSE}` before calling `New Page`.

Let's take that one step further. Especially if the same keyword is being called by both UI and API tests
we don't really want to see the browser open during the API tests. We can parametrize opening in headless
state and have it open headless by default and we can then just use `headless=${FALSE}` in our `Suite Setup`
while we're debugging.

- Add `headless` parameter to `Open Browser To Our Application` keyword and give it `${TRUE}` as a default
value.
- Add call to `New Browser` before `New Page` and give it the parameter `headless=${headless}`.
- Add a parameter to your `Suite Setup` to set `headless=${TRUE}`.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

</details> <!-- Optional exercise -->
