exercises/08-execute-javascript.md, before:

# Execute JavaScript

## Learning Goals

- You understand when it's good to use `Execute Javascript`.

## Introduction

By now, our form should be fully submittable. We can still modify
the slider keyword a little.

Executing JavaScript in web testing is a handy (but a little hacky)
way to manipulate objects and events. For example, we can
change, add, or remove attributes. We can also input or modify values of certain
fields directly, which would be impossible without deliberately imitating manual input, such as mouse movements.
So, in general we can bypass parts of the programmatically tricky user flow to make test development
a bit more tolerable, or test execution significantly faster.

Although "we can", to replace human-like behaviour with hacks like JavaScript
shouldn't be the default way to do things. Robot Framework is an acceptance testing framework,
and typically we want to simulate human behaviour as much as possible.
However, sometimes it just makes more sense to use it, than to spend a long time
implementing a keyword that will be inefficient at best, and inaccurate or
extremely time-consuming at worst.

## Exercise

### Overview

- Add logic to the keyword you implemented in the [previous exercise](./07-slider.md) to optionally
execute its task using `Execute JavaScript`.
- Implement a keyword that submits your form and validates that the submission succeeded.

### Step-by-step

<details>
  <summary>Change "Important number" with <code>Execute Javascript</code></summary>

<br />

Even though we've successfully filled our form, we notice the run takes time, most of which is spent on executing `Change Important Number`. 
We could try to optimize the clicking at a specific point, but we can also bypass this extremely operation by using
`Execute Javascript`.

We've already implemented `Change Important Number`, so we can just modify that. We can give it a boolean
argument to determine if we want to run `Execute Javascript` or not. In order to avoid breaking our
test case, we'll give it a default value. Now, we'll want our argument to specify if we want to execute
JavaScript, so a variable name like `execute_javascript` with a default value of `${FALSE}` should be good.

- Add an argument `execute_javascript` to `Change Important Number` and give it a default value `${FALSE}`.

Next, we want to run `Execute Javascript` if `execute_javascript` is `True` and skip the rest of the keyword.
Here we have multiple different ways to do this. We could call `Run Keyword If` multiple times,
use a combination of `Run Keyword If` and `Run Keywords` to combine them in a single if-statement, or create
wrapper keyword which are called based on `execute_javascript` value. It doesn't really matter which option
we use, so let's just the first option. We're actually going to use `Run Keyword If` once and then
`Return From Keyword If` once.

> Since we're evaluating a boolean variable, we don't need to specify the value of the boolean (
`${execute_javascript}==${TRUE}`) and we can just use the variable on its own (`${execute_javascript}`).

- Add two steps before your for-loop starting `Run Keyword If` and `Return From Keyword If`. The condition
for both keywords is `execute_javascript`.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

Executing JavaScript is fun when the elements have `id` attributes. In those cases, we can use
`document.getElementById("myId")` to find our elements. For example, we could change our datepicker logic
to use that as well. However, our "Important number" doesn't have an `id`, so we're forced to use something
else. Throughout this training, we've used XPaths. Using XPaths in JavaScript much more complex than what
we've used in SeleniumLibrary keywords. We can use XPaths in JavaScript by using the following code:

```js
document.evaluate("//our/xpath", document, null, XPathResult.FIRST_ORDERED_NODE_TYPE, null).singleNodeValue
```

Compared to using `xpath://our/xpath`, that is a bit more difficult, right? We can use that by all means,
but we can also use `document.querySelector()` The difference is, that `querySelector()` doesn't use
XPaths. It uses CSS. So, in other words if we want to find `//parent/child[@attribute='value']` with
`querySelector()`, our selector will be `parent child[attribute='value']`. We used the `name` attribute
in the previous exercise as the locator for our "Important number". We can transform that into an XPath
simply by using `//input[@name='important_number']`.

Doesn't matter if we use XPath or CSS, the function returns our element. Then we still need to change its
attribute value. Changing an attribute value in JavaScript is as simple as `element.attribute=value`.
We notice that the "Important number" element has an attribute called `value` and our new value is in
our `wanted_value` argument. So, full execution would be
`document.evaluate(...).singleNodeValue.value = ${wanted_value};`.

- Write `Execute Javascript` implementation using either the XPath or CSS selector to change the "Important
number" value to `wanted_value`.

> `Execute Javascript` can return values normally, but in order to get values
> you need to explicitly tell the JavaScript command to `return` even though
> the command would normally return a value when running in the browser console,
> e.g. `${element}=       Execute Javascript    return document.getElementById("myId");`
</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

In contrast to SeleniumLibrary's implementation, Browser's keyword to execute JavaScript takes two arguments. The second argument is
a reference to an element in the web page, and the first one is the JS function,
that will be sent to that referenced element. Locator is not the same as a reference, so we will need to call another keyword to create a reference first.

The operation on the slider is thus not a one-liner, so let's make a
separate keyword for it, which can be then called by `Run Keyword If`.
The new keyword should contain the steps to get a reference for the slider, and change its value with a simple JS function.

- Add a keyword `Change slider value with JS` that will change the slider's value to `wanted_value`.

Reference to an element is returned by `Get Element` keyword, which takes a
locator as an argument. Store it in a local variable. It can be used like a
locator in other keywords, even without the need to specify the iframe.
With this direct reference to the slider, JS function needed is a simple change of the `value` property.
Example function syntax: `(element) => element.property = "new value"`.

- Use `Get Element` to get a reference to the slider element
- Use `Execute Javascript` to assign `wanted_value` to the slider's `value` property using the reference element.

Our keyword should also check that the value stored by the slider indeed changed.
This can be done by confirming the value before the change is `0`, and after is
equal to the `wanted value`. Browser's keywords have built-in checking, so
there's no need to store the numbers and compare them as integers. The value is stored inside slider's properly, so you can use the `Get Property` keyword.

Browser library has builtin waiting and no separate validation keywords. Instead, you can use `Get Text`
to validate the text automatically. Python validations such as `==`, `!=`, `contains`, and `not contains`
are available for validation. The syntax is Python-esque:

```robot
Get Text    locator    ==    some text
```

- Implement checks with `Get Property` to ensure the value has been changed.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

As we now have our JavaScript implementation ready, we can modify the logic inside
`Fill All Form Fields` keyword to change the important number with JavaScript.

- Add `${TRUE}` as a final argument when you call `Change Important Number` inside `Fill All Form Fields`.

</details> <!-- Change important number -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Submit form</summary>

<br />

When we run our test, we can see that the slider is automatically moved to the correct position. However, the
label doesn't change. This might cause trouble, but we should test our solution if it works. The only
way to test it is to submit our form and validate the outcome.

Let's create a keyword, which submits the form and validates submission succeeded.

- Create a keyword called `Submit Form Successfully`.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

We can submit the form directly with the SeleniumLibrary `Submit Form` keyword. This means that we're
left with validating that the submission succeeded.
If our form was successfully filled, we should see `Submit successful!` at the top of the page.
We can validate that with `Wait Until Page Contains` to check that our submission
succeeded.

- Inside `Submit Form Successfully` call `Submit Form` inside an iframe.
- Call `Wait Until Page Contains` inside an iframe to validate the page contains `Submit successful!`.

</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

We can submit the form by using the `Click` keyword. There's only one `button` in the whole form,
so we can just simply use that as the locator.

If the submission was successful, we should see a `Submit successful!` text in a `h3` element. That means
that we simply need to use `Get Text` from the header element and verify the text is what is expected.

- Use `Click` to click the `button` on the form.
- Use `Get Text` to verify the `h3` has the text `Submit successful!`.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

> :bulb: Remember that the form is inside an iframe

</details> <!-- Submit form -->

Commit message:

Rewrite the exercises to use robot files with pre-filled keyword names.

exercises/08-execute-javascript.md, after:

# Execute JavaScript

## Learning Goals

- You understand when it's good to use `Execute Javascript`.

## Introduction

By now, our form should be fully submittable. We can still modify
the slider keyword a little.

Executing JavaScript in web testing is a handy (but a little hacky)
way to manipulate objects and events. For example, we can
change, add, or remove attributes. We can also input or modify values of certain
fields directly, which would be impossible without deliberately imitating manual input, such as mouse movements.
So, in general we can bypass parts of the programmatically tricky user flow to make test development
a bit more tolerable, or test execution significantly faster.

Although "we can", to replace human-like behaviour with hacks like JavaScript
shouldn't be the default way to do things. Robot Framework is an acceptance testing framework,
and typically we want to simulate human behaviour as much as possible.
However, sometimes it just makes more sense to use it, than to spend a long time
implementing a keyword that will be inefficient at best, and inaccurate or
extremely time-consuming at worst.

## Exercise

### Overview

- Add logic to the keyword you implemented in the [previous exercise](./07-slider.md) to optionally
execute its task using `Execute JavaScript`.
- Implement a keyword that submits your form and validates that the submission succeeded.

### Step-by-step

<details>
  <summary>Change "Important number" with <code>Execute Javascript</code></summary>

<br />

Even though we've successfully filled our form, we notice the run takes time, most of which is spent on executing `Change Important Number`. 
We could try to optimize the clicking at a specific point, but we can also bypass this extremely operation by using
`Execute Javascript`.

We've already implemented `Change Important Number`, so we can just modify that. We can give it a boolean
argument to determine if we want to run `Execute Javascript` or not. In order to avoid breaking our
test case, we'll give it a default value. Now, we'll want our argument to specify if we want to execute
JavaScript, so a variable name like `execute_javascript` with a default value of `${FALSE}` should be good.

- Add an argument `execute_javascript` to `Change Important Number` and give it a default value `${FALSE}`.

Next, we want to run `Execute Javascript` if `execute_javascript` is `True` and skip the rest of the keyword.
Here we have multiple different ways to do this. We could call `Run Keyword If` multiple times,
use a combination of `Run Keyword If` and `Run Keywords` to combine them in a single if-statement, or create
wrapper keyword which are called based on `execute_javascript` value. It doesn't really matter which option
we use, so let's just the first option. We're actually going to use `Run Keyword If` once and then
`Return From Keyword If` once.

> Since we're evaluating a boolean variable, we don't need to specify the value of the boolean (
`${execute_javascript}==${TRUE}`) and we can just use the variable on its own (`${execute_javascript}`).

- Add two steps before your for-loop starting `Run Keyword If` and `Return From Keyword If`. The condition
for both keywords is `execute_javascript`.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

Executing JavaScript is fun when the elements have `id` attributes. In those cases, we can use
`document.getElementById("myId")` to find our elements. For example, we could change our datepicker logic
to use that as well. However, our "Important number" doesn't have an `id`, so we're forced to use something
else. Throughout this training, we've used XPaths. Using XPaths in JavaScript much more complex than what
we've used in SeleniumLibrary keywords. We can use XPaths in JavaScript by using the following code:

```js
document.evaluate("//our/xpath", document, null, XPathResult.FIRST_ORDERED_NODE_TYPE, null).singleNodeValue
```

Compared to using `xpath://our/xpath`, that is a bit more difficult, right? We can use that by all means,
but we can also use `document.querySelector()` The difference is, that `querySelector()` doesn't use
XPaths. It uses CSS. So, in other words if we want to find `//parent/child[@attribute='value']` with
`querySelector()`, our selector will be `parent child[attribute='value']`. We used the `name` attribute
in the previous exercise as the locator for our "Important number". We can transform that into an XPath
simply by using `//input[@name='important_number']`.

Doesn't matter if we use XPath or CSS, the function returns our element. Then we still need to change its
attribute value. Changing an attribute value in JavaScript is as simple as `element.attribute=value`.
We notice that the "Important number" element has an attribute called `value` and our new value is in
our `wanted_value` argument. So, full execution would be
`document.evaluate(...).singleNodeValue.value = ${wanted_value};`.

- Write `Execute Javascript` implementation using either the XPath or CSS selector to change the "Important
number" value to `wanted_value`.

> `Execute Javascript` can return values normally, but in order to get values
> you need to explicitly tell the JavaScript command to `return` even though
> the command would normally return a value when running in the browser console,
> e.g. `${element}=       Execute Javascript    return document.getElementById("myId");`
</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

In contrast to SeleniumLibrary's implementation, Browser's keyword to execute JavaScript takes two arguments. The second argument is
a reference to an element in the web page, and the first one is the JS function,
that will be sent to that referenced element. Locator is not the same as a reference, so we will need to call another keyword to create a reference first.

The operation on the slider is thus not a one-liner, so let's make a
separate keyword for it, which can be then called by `Run Keyword If`.
The new keyword should contain the steps to get a reference for the slider, and change its value with a simple JS function.

- Add a keyword `Change slider value with JS` that will change the slider's value to `wanted_value`.

Reference to an element is returned by `Get Element` keyword, which takes a
locator as an argument. Store it in a local variable. It can be used like a
locator in other keywords, even without the need to specify the iframe.
With this direct reference to the slider, JS function needed is a simple change of the `value` property.
Example function syntax: `(element) => element.property = "new value"`.

- Use `Get Element` to get a reference to the slider element
- Use `Execute Javascript` to assign `wanted_value` to the slider's `value` property using the reference element.

Our keyword should also check that the value stored by the slider indeed changed.
This can be done by confirming the value before the change is `0`, and after is
equal to the `wanted value`. Browser's keywords have built-in checking, so
there's no need to store the numbers and compare them as integers. The value is stored inside slider's properly, so you can use the `Get Property` keyword.

Browser library has builtin waiting and no separate validation keywords. Instead, you can use `Get Text`
to validate the text automatically. Python validations such as `==`, `!=`, `contains`, and `not contains`
are available for validation. The syntax is Python-esque:

```robot
Get Text    locator    ==    some text
```

- Implement checks with `Get Property` to ensure the value has been changed.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

As we now have our JavaScript implementation ready, we can modify the logic inside
`Fill All Form Fields` keyword to change the important number with JavaScript.

- Add `${TRUE}` as a final argument when you call `Change Important Number` inside the keyword filling the form.

</details> <!-- Change important number -->

---

<details>
  <summary>Submit form</summary>

<br />

When we run our test, we can see that the slider is automatically moved to the correct position. However, the
label doesn't change. This might cause trouble, but we should test our solution if it works. The only
way to test it is to submit our form and validate the outcome.

Let's create a keyword, which submits the form and validates submission succeeded.

- Create a keyword called `Submit Form Successfully`.

<details>
  <summary>SeleniumLibrary</summary>

We can submit the form directly with the SeleniumLibrary `Submit Form` keyword. This means that we're
left with validating that the submission succeeded.
If our form was successfully filled, we should see `Submit successful!` at the top of the page.
We can validate that with `Wait Until Page Contains` to check that our submission
succeeded.

- Inside `Submit Form Successfully` call `Submit Form` inside an iframe.
- Call `Wait Until Page Contains` inside an iframe to validate the page contains `Submit successful!`.

</details> <!-- SeleniumLibrary -->

<details>
  <summary>Browser</summary>

We can submit the form by using the `Click` keyword. There's only one `button` in the whole form,
so we can just simply use that as the locator.

If the submission was successful, we should see a `Submit successful!` text in a `h3` element. That means
that we simply need to use `Get Text` from the header element and verify the text is what is expected.

- Use `Click` to click the `button` on the form.
- Use `Get Text` to verify the `h3` has the text `Submit successful!`.

</details> <!-- Browser -->

> :bulb: Remember that the form is inside an iframe

</details> <!-- Submit form -->

> :bulb: Note that the dummy keyword
> `Replace this with an actual implementation` has been 
> removed from all execution. It is not needed anymore, so delete it. Rather than keep unused 
> code around, we want the resource files to be neat and contain the relevant stuff.
