exercises/readme.md, before:

# Exercises

All exercises are in the given files. Start with file [00-getting-started.md](./00-getting-started.md)
and work your way through each exercise file.

The exercise architecture is already setup with the directories in this directory with all necessary
links to each file already configured. The exercises will explain all necessary references to external
libraries.

Remember that the root directory has the [XPath cheatsheet](../xpath-cheatsheet.md) if you're struggling
with XPath syntax.

Before starting your exercises, be sure to have your environment fully working by following
[00-getting-started.md](./00-getting-started.md).

- All API tests are combined in a single file ([01-rest-api.md](./01-rest-api.md))
- Introduction to Bad Flask App ([02-bad-flask-app-intro.md](./02-bad-flask-app.md))
- Introduction to XPaths ([03-xpath-intro.md](./03-xpath-intro.md))
- Handling iframes ([04-iframes.md](./04-iframes.md))
- Using complex XPaths ([05-filling-fields.md](./05-filling-fields.md))
- Using support RF libraries ([06-datepicker.md](./06-datepicker.md))
- Handling for-loops ([07-slider.md](./07-slider.md))
- Making life easier with `Execute Javascript` ([08-execute-javascript.md](./08-execute-javascript.md))
- Writing meaningful documentation ([09-documentation.md](./09-documentation.md))

## How to Read Exercise Files

All exercise files (01-09) start with an introduction followed by the actual
exercise.

A general overview of the exercise is given first, followed by more detailed step-by-step instructions.
If you want an extra challenge, you can try to just read the general steps of the exercise and if you
need more help, take a look at the step-by-step instructions. The detailed instructions are split into
collapsible steps, which are then further divided into collipsable steps for SeleniumLibrary (+ RESTinstance)
and Browser for library specific instructions. The step-by-step instructions also
explain in some steps about _why_ they are done as they are done in the exercise.

If you need additional help, example solutions are available in the [examples](../examples) directory. The
example solutions are by no means the only possible solution, but they follow the style of the exercises.

<details>
  <summary>The general step instructions are placed in collapsible blocks</summary>

Followed by some narrative and some possible general steps that are common for both library approaches.

</details>

Exarcises have no validation scripts, instead they offer explanations to support your search for suitable solutions.

- All exercise steps are bulleted. The bulleted points summarize the previous
paragraphs as small individual tasks. **To finish the exercise, it should be sufficient to read
only the bulleted steps.** All other text is just narrative and explanations as to why things are
done as they are.

> Quoted blocks indicate "nice to know" stuff and can be safely ignored.
> They won't affect the outcome of the exercise, but generally include
> additional information the training doesn't handle.
>
> :bulb: If a quoted paragraph begins with a lightbulb, it tells that
> it's a hint for the test step.

Commit message:

Add part of the text explanations.

exercises/readme.md, after:

# Exercises

All exercises are in the given files. Start with file [00-getting-started.md](./00-getting-started.md)
and work your way through each exercise file.

The exercise architecture is already setup with the directories in this directory with all necessary
links to each file already configured. The exercises will explain all necessary references to external
libraries.

Remember that the root directory has the [XPath cheatsheet](../xpath-cheatsheet.md) if you're struggling
with XPath syntax.

Before starting your exercises, be sure to have your environment fully working by following
[00-getting-started.md](./00-getting-started.md).

- All API tests are combined in a single file ([01-rest-api.md](./01-rest-api.md))
- Introduction to Bad Flask App ([02-bad-flask-app-intro.md](./02-bad-flask-app.md))
- Introduction to XPaths ([03-xpath-intro.md](./03-xpath-intro.md))
- Handling iframes ([04-iframes.md](./04-iframes.md))
- Using complex XPaths ([05-filling-fields.md](./05-filling-fields.md))
- Using support RF libraries ([06-datepicker.md](./06-datepicker.md))
- Handling for-loops ([07-slider.md](./07-slider.md))
- Making life easier with `Execute Javascript` ([08-execute-javascript.md](./08-execute-javascript.md))
- Writing meaningful documentation ([09-documentation.md](./09-documentation.md))

## How to Read Exercise Files

All exercise files (01-09) start with an introduction followed by the actual
exercise.

A general overview of the exercise is given first, followed by more detailed step-by-step instructions.
If you want an extra challenge, you can try to just read the general steps of the exercise and if you
need more help, take a look at the step-by-step instructions. The detailed instructions are split into
collapsible steps, which are then further divided into collipsable steps for SeleniumLibrary (+ RESTinstance)
and Browser for library specific instructions. The step-by-step instructions also
include explanations in some places about _why_ things are done as they are done in the exercise.

If you need additional help, example solutions are available in the [examples](../examples) directory. The
example solutions are by no means the only possible solution, but they follow the style of the exercises.

<details>
  <summary>The general step instructions are placed in collapsible blocks</summary>

Followed by some narrative and some possible general steps that are common for both library approaches.

</details>

Exarcises have no validation scripts, instead they offer explanations to support your search for suitable solutions.

- All exercise steps are in bullet points. Each bullet point is an individual small task summary. Between the bullet points there are longer descriptive paragraphs.
 **To complete the exercise, it's ok to skip those paragraphs.**
The paragraphs offer reasoning, clarifying solutions, so you can understand and apply it in your work.

> Quoted blocks indicate "nice to know" stuff and can be safely ignored.
> They won't affect the outcome of the exercise, but generally include
> additional information the training doesn't handle.
>
> :bulb: If a quoted paragraph begins with a lightbulb, it tells that
> it's a hint for the test step.
